[ Music ]
[ Silence ]
>> Hassan Samantar: Hi.
My name is Hassan Samantar.
I am a Pacer multicultural advocate.
I do work with communities of color from
East Africa, meaning Somali families,
in many different aspects -- but mostly with
their education, their children's education.
It's completely different circumstances.
We have - the country we
came from, our homeland,
the education system is completely different.
There are a lot of services that we were
not afforded or we didn't have back home
that are - families can, I think, here.
And it's very complicated.
It's a - very difficult circumstances
for a lot of families
who either might have a language barrier
or a, you know, cultural barrier.
So it's completely different circumstances.
It's a lot more complicated.
And it's - it takes awhile for families to
overcome all the barriers that services here
in this country that are
available for the families.
Education is very important.
It's - and somehow it's the other way -
the only way, I should say out of poverty.
Education back home was very important,
and parents strive sometimes -
commute in a very long distance to be able
to have their children have
opportunity of education.
However, there is a lot of
differences that should be noted.
For instance, education wasn't compulsory.
A family could keep their children home if
they, for some reason, maybe were not able
to afford the transportation
or for many other reasons.
But education wasn't compulsory.
It was a choice that the families have.
In another aspect that's very important in
terms of education in this country and compared
to our homelands is the fact that the
school have the sole responsibility
of educating the children -- you know,
since the parents' extent in terms
of school involvement was just to bring
their kids to school and drop them off.
We didn't have a transportation system.
There was no transportation system available,
so the parents were responsible,
bringing their kids to school.
But as far as of - in terms of the
extent of involvement, that was it,
and the school was responsible
for educating the kids.
So that, at times, can be misleading to
many of the - especially, the newcomers --
the new American Somali families
-- when here we say,
"We want you to be involved
in your child's education."
It's a very tall task.
It's a very complicated system and may not
really understand where to start or even what
that means -- involvement, school involvement.
What does that mean?
So I usually, you know, recommend to the
educators to be a little bit more specific
or give them a task that the parents can handle.
Now remember, there might be a language barrier.
They might be - not be able to help
their parents in terms of homework.
So it's very different.
It's - and it's completely difficult at times
for the parents to understand that concept.
[ Music ]
[ Silence ]